# stats

stats is a repo containing all my efforts towards gaining a deep understanding
of statistics.

## 1 Motivation

My motivation for this is largely a result of my studies of data analytics
techniques over the last few months. Having worked with a number of sources for
this, it became clear to me that they focus on explaining how to execute
various techniques, but do not explain how and why they work. I therefore
started taking courses in statistics, but only to discover that they suffer
from the same shortcomings. My most recent attempt was working through
statistics textbooks. While they were more comprehensive I was unable to find
one that is both wide (as in covering all main topics) and deep (as in giving
thorough explanations). I have now come to the conclusion that this is not a
problem with the material available but rather that my expectations are
unrealistic.

## 2 The New Course of Action

As a consequence I am starting this project to gain a deep understanding of the
field of statistics, at least equivalent to a bachelors degree.

While I am not completely certain about how to achieve this, I have a few clues
from my previous efforts.

### 2.1 Depth

As mentioned earlier, many of the courses available for free on the internet
lack depth. They only provide superficial explanations, if any. In this project
I will focus on deeper understanding of the concepts behind statistical
techniques.

### 2.2 Real Applications

One thing I did like about MOOC's was that the ones in computer or data science
usually integrate the techniques presented in the lectures with actual
applications with real data. In this project I want to keep dedicating a
significant amount of time to applying my learnings. This will most likely be
more than 50% of my study time.

Given that I already have some experience with R, that is seems to be the
current standard for most research, and that I quite like it, I will stick to
it.

### 2.3 Game Plan

I will construct my own curriculum. This is to give me some structure and to
keep track of what I want to learn. It will be a living document and by no means
fixed upfront.
